# [](#information-schema-for-engine-user-query-history)Information schema for engine user query history

The system table `information_schema.engine_user_query_history` is a view, which is a virtual table based on [ENGINE\_QUERY\_HISTORY](/sql_reference/information-schema/engine-query-history.html). It applies filters to only show queries that were made by actual users.

Queries generated by the system, such as those from connectors, drivers, or SDKs, are marked with the boolean HTTP header `Firebolt-Machine-Query`. These system queries can include actions such UI page loads or query progress updates. These queries do not appear in `information_schema.engine_user_query_history`, but are available in [ENGINE\_QUERY\_HISTORY](/sql_reference/information-schema/engine-query-history.html), which acts as a complete audit log.

```
SELECT
  *
FROM
  information_schema.engine_user_query_history
LIMIT
  100;
```

## [](#columns-in-information_schemaengine_user_query_history)Columns in information\_schema.engine\_user\_query\_history

Each row contains columns with detailed information about each query in the history. This schema has the same structure and information as [ENGINE\_QUERY\_HISTORY](/sql_reference/information-schema/engine-query-history.html).

Column Name Data Type Description account\_name TEXT The name of the account that ran the query. user\_name TEXT The user name used to run the query. The `user name` is provided for account-level operations but is `NULL` for organization-level operations. login\_name TEXT The login name that was used to run the query. The `login_name` is provided for organization-level statements, and is otherwise `NULL`. service\_account\_name TEXT The service account name that was used to run the query. The `service_account_name` is provided for organization-level statements, and otherwise `NULL`. submitted\_time TIMESTAMPTZ The time that the user submitted the query. start\_time TIMESTAMPTZ The time that the query started running in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). end\_time TIMESTAMPTZ The time that the query stopped running in UTC. duration\_us BIGINT The duration of query run time in microseconds. e2e\_duration\_us BIGINT The end-to-end duration of query run time. Starting from the time the query was submitted and ending when the result was fully returned in microseconds. status TEXT Can be one of the following values:  
`STARTED_EXECUTION`–Successful start of query execution.  
`ENDED_SUCCESSFULLY`–Successful end of query execution.  
`CANCELED_EXECUTION`–Query was canceled.  
`PARSE_ERROR`–Query could not be parsed.  
`EXECUTION_ERROR`–Query could not be executed successfully. request\_id TEXT The ID of the request from which the query originates. query\_id TEXT The unique identifier of the SQL query. query\_label TEXT A user-provided query label. query\_text TEXT The text of the SQL statement. query\_text\_normalized TEXT The normalized text of the SQL statement. query\_text\_normalized\_hash TEXT The hash of the normalized text of the SQL statement. error\_message TEXT The returned error message. scanned\_rows BIGINT The total number of rows scanned. scanned\_bytes BIGINT The total number of bytes scanned from both cache and storage. scanned\_cache\_bytes BIGINT The total number of compressed bytes scanned from disk-based cache. scanned\_storage\_bytes BIGINT The total number of compressed bytes scanned from Firebolt-managed storage. Does not apply to [EXTERNAL tables](/Overview/indexes/using-indexes.html#external-tables). inserted\_rows BIGINT The total number of rows written. inserted\_bytes BIGINT The total number of bytes written to both cache and storage. spilled\_bytes BIGINT The total number of uncompressed bytes spilled. total\_ram\_consumed BIGINT The total number of bytes in RAM consumed by the engine during the query process. returned\_rows BIGINT The total number of rows returned from the query. returned\_bytes BIGINT The total number of bytes returned from the query. time\_in\_queue\_us BIGINT The number of microseconds the query spent in queue. retries BIGINT The number of retried attempts in case of query failure. Defaults to 0.